Let's talk about pull to refresh.
You might have,
you've probably seen this and
it might be an action that
you've been do without thinking.
But to refresh a list, you kind of
pull down and then use a spinner and
then things happen and
then you get a new data.
Well, you might be surprised to know or
not, that is actually built into
react Native which is really cool.
Any element that is scrollable.
So a scroll view, flat list or a section
list has this refresh control prop,
where you can pass in a special
refresh control element.
That's displays loading, so
it's built exactly for that.
And it also adapts itself based
on the environment that it's in.
So it looks different on
Android than it does on iOS.
So the refresh control component
has a link to it here and
it doesn't have a lot of properties.
The main ones that we care about
are refreshing, which is a Boolean for
whether the view should be indicating
that the refresh is active.
And on refresh, which is basically
called when the view starts refreshing.
So if the user pulls down,
then this gets triggered.
So let's go into our home.
Which is where we have the main FlatList.
And let's import RefreshControl
from React Native.
And now let's go into our FlatList and
let's pass in Refresh control
in our refresh control probe,
refreshControl, refresh Control.
We just passed a component into
the self closing components.
And then let's just do refreshing true,
so we could see what it looks like.
And, was it handle refresh?
OnRefresh, and onRefresh, let's just
pass in an empty function for now.
Alright, so this is what it looks like.
So it looks like on IOS, and
this is what it looks like on Android.
So you can see that they look a little
bit different because there's platform
specific, differences.
Now currently, it's set to always be
refreshing because we added this as true.
And we wanna make this dynamic.
>> I have a question do you know why
they wouldn't make refreshing and
unrefresh, just props of
the Flatlist component,
it seems a little bit indirect to
import a refresh control component.
>> That's because you might want
to customize this component.
And because some people you might want to
have like a custom refresh spinner, so
this actually inherits the props.
You can wrap it in anything you want.
So if you want a completely custom one,
you can just swap it out.
>> So you could build your
own refresh controllers.
>> Yeah.
>> From using the provided one.
I think when we did it,
we we kind of forgot what it is.
I feel like we kind of wrapped around it,
I think it has some.
Yeah, I think we wrapped around it.
So you can replace it with
your custom one [INAUDIBLE].
>> Flat list does have those two props,
actually that's what I
did first before understanding
you could do refresh control.
So you can do that if you don't
wanna pass in a refresh control.
That might be a new feature, but I didn't.
>> That was probably not I'm
learning all kinds of things today.
Yes, so it has refreshing unrefreshed.
So thank you for that.
And you can pass them directly.
I think I always had to
have a customized one.
So I'm just used to doing this.
That's a good shout outs.
Yeah, so let's actually try this.
So refreshing=true onRefresh.
Yeah and it works the same.
That's great, let's just use this.
All right, now let's make this dynamic.
Well, the first thing you wanna
do is we want a state parameter
to store when we are doing a refresh.
So we're going to use,
useSate for this again.
So let's do refreshing,
refreshing set.
Well I always actually make my
booleans with an is, is refreshing.
And sets is refreshing, useState.
And let's default to false, because
we want to only trigger the refresh
once a user does the pull action and
now we I want to write the code for
actually doing the production.
So what do we wanna do we want
to set refreshing to true.
You wanna do the refresh,
I want to set refreshing into false.
So I want to use a use callback for
this again.
Refresh that's to handleRefresh and
we useCallback.
Let's pass in the empty array again.
And now, we use set this to
set to refreshing to true,
so setIsRefreshing, true and
then we want to call this
fetch color palettes.
I want to await this,
which means that we actually
have to make this async
to use the await keyword.
And then finally,
what we wanna do is just use the set
is setRefreshing and set it to false.
And now we want to pass these parameters
into refreshing and onRefresh.
So isRefreshing and so
this ends up being on refresh,
handleRefresh.
So as a shorthand, we can just pass
in the function handleRefresh.
We don't need to pass in any arguments.
So now when you pull to refresh,
it kind of displays there and
it disappears when the call is done.
But the thing is we actually have
the problem that we don't usually have,
which is our network request.
It's so quick,
we don't really see the refresh the way
you would normally see it on the web.
So just to emulate a bit of a timeout,
I'm gonna add an actual timeout.
So if you never use setTimeOut before the
first argument is the function that you
want to execute after
the timeout is completed.
And then a second argument is the amount
of time that you want to wait in
milliseconds.
So I'm just gonna do one second.
So now when I pull to refresh,
you notice that even when of release it,
the loading spinner kinda stays there for
a bit before disappearing.
And it's kind of a weird thing cause
normally we don't want to make our
app slower.
We're kind of chasing the opposite, but
sometimes from a user experience point of
view, users just wanna know
that something's going on.
And when you have a super
short spinning cycle,
the thing that they were
trying to do didn't happen.
So sometimes this is handy to do.
So one thing to note that the API that I
used, it's actually public on my GitHub.
Let's see, I think it's is
called the color palette API.
It's just a tiny Express app, but
I added some more functionality.
For example, you can fetch an individual
palettes and these are commented out but
you can also add a new pallet actually,
this was when I was doing the recipe.
I'm gonna update this to work on palettes.
So if you want to, maybe try on your
own to extend it and actually push to
an API or something like that,
feel free to fork this code and edit it.
I deployed it using now.sh, so
if you clone it log into now.sh in
your terminal you just do,
now it will deploy it to your account.
So you can do it as well if you want to.